---
layout: kf
title: EU Mission Delegate
cardNum: 4-2
categories:
- key-figures
power: "Can mobilize the diplomatic core to care about and respond to HRD cases."
token: "Business Card"
---
You are the HRD focal point at the EU Mission in country. You coordinate the diplomatic core on HRD support and response, in accordance with the EU HRD Protection Guidelines. The support you provide ranges from encouraging embassies for emergency visas, office visits, press statements, trial monitoring, etc.

###Main requisites
- Why is the person an HRD? Do they actually fit the UN definition of an HRD?
- A good explanation of what happened: circumstances of the disappearance, including how they found out about it
- Have they verified the situation?
- Information about the response plan that has been set up. Who is involved? How would the work of the EU fit into other responses that are being planned?  

###Hard mode
- Confirm that the HRD fits the EU definition (i.e. ask whether the HRD believes in controversial issues like access to abortions, LGBTI rights, etc). Claim that you can't get involved in the case unless you have assurances the person is in fact an HRD and believes in all rights.
- Is there history between the HRD and the EU or DipCore? Has the HRD ever been invited to EU or Embassy events? Has anyone in the DipCore ever visited their office or made public appearances with them?
- Claim that you can't take action unless there's already an Urgent Action or public statement by a large, well-respected human rights NGO/INGO.
